To be great is to be misunderstood.
Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind.
There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance; that imitation is suicide; that he must take himself for better, for worse, as his portion; that though the wide universe is full of good, no kernel of nourishing corn can come to him but through his toil bestowed on that plot of ground which is given to him to till.
A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
Trust thyself: every heart vibrates to that iron string.
With consistency a great soul has simply nothing to do. He may as well concern himself with his shadow on the wall.
Speak what you think today in hard words and tomorrow speak what tomorrow thinks in hard words again, though it contradict every thing you said today.
How easily we capitulate to badges and names, to large societies and dead institutions.
Greatness is a property for which no man can receive credit too soon; it must be possessed long before it is acknowledged.
A man is relieved and gay when he has put his heart into his work and done his best.
We are afraid of truth, afraid of fortune, afraid of death, and afraid of each other.
Be yourself; no base imitator of another, but your best self.
There is something which you can do better than another.
Do the things at which you are great, not what you were never made for.
Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist.
Nothing can bring you peace but yourself.
Before a leaf-bud has burst, its whole life acts; in the full-blown flower there is no more; in the leafless root there is no less.
He cannot be happy and strong until he too lives with nature in the present, above time.
The student is to read history actively not passively.
Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind.
Absolve you to yourself, and you shall have the suffrage of the world.
Society is a wave. The wave moves onward, but the water of which it is composed does not.
The civilized man has built a coach, but has lost the use of his feet.
For every thing that is given, something is taken.
The true poem is the poet's mind; the true ship is the ship-builder. In the man, could we lay him open, we should see the reason for the last flourish and tendril of his work.
To believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men, that is genius.
Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist.
Virtues are, in the popular estimate, rather the exception than the rule.
For nonconformity the world whips you with its displeasure.
No man can violate his nature.
Men imagine that they communicate their virtue or vice only by overt actions, and do not see that virtue or vice emit a breath every moment.
Let a man then know his worth, and keep things under his feet.
The world has been instructed by its kings, who have so magnetized the eyes of nations.
Power ceases in the instant of repose; it resides in the moment of transition from a past to a new state, in the shooting of the gulf, in the darting to an aim.
Man does not stand in awe of man, nor is his genius admonished to stay at home, to put itself in communication with the internal ocean, but it goes abroad to beg a cup of water of the urns of other men.
Discontent is the want of self-reliance: it is infirmity of will.
Our minds travel when our bodies are forced to stay at home.
Insist on yourself; never imitate.
No greater men are now than ever were.
And so the reliance on Property, including the reliance on governments which protect it, is the want of self-reliance.
